The files necessary to run the code for Part 1 are:
	1. sorting.h (header file for sorting.cpp)
	2. sorting.cpp (source file that contains all sorting algorithms)
	3. data.h (header file for data.cpp)
	4. data.cpp (source file for running experiments utilizing sorting algorithms)
	5. termProject.cpp (driver for running Part 1 code)
	
To run the code, simply make a project in Visual Studio with the aforementioned .cpp and .h files as source files and header
files respectively. Then navigate to the termProject.cpp file in the project and run the code from there. Performance information
will be printed to the terminal in real time as well as a results.txt which will be created to store the results.


There are two ways to go about modifying which sorting algorithms are and aren't run. First, you can simply comment
out one of the for loops in the termProject source file that runs through each of the data inputs to avoid running all
tests with that input (i.e. ascending input). Alternatively, you could comment out specific algorithms altogether 
in the trials function located in the the data source file. That said, if you wanted to omit only specific data inputs for 
specific algorithms, you would need to comment out their respective for loops in the relevant algorithms
trial function (i.e. insertionTrials).

As for the data set, that is built before each algorithms run using the vect function which builds the ascending, descending,
or random input based on the arguments passed to it by each algorithms trials function.

The easiest way to modify how many times each algorithm is tested with a specific input data set is to change the 
numTrials integer variable at the beginning of the main function in the termProject source file. 
Similarly, you can change how many times the size all of the algorithms' input increases by changing the integer numLevels
in the same area of the termProject source file. And if you wanted to change the base by which the input size scales (default
is 5 resulting in input sizes of 5, 25, 125, etc.) simply alter value of the integer base right below numLevels.

The specific data that was exported from the results.txt file generated by the code for part 1 is saved and analyzed in the 
"Exprted Data.xlsx" file.


This part is for the algorithm creation code.

This program has 2 algorithms implemented. Given a list of numbers and another number X, these algorithms can find whether or not there is a pair in the list that adds up to X. One of them is by brute force meaning it checks all possible combinations, while the second one is a more effective and time managable algorithm which uses hashtable implementation.

How to execute the code:
To execute the code, head over to the main function. The first few lines you will see 2 integers, x and size. Look at the "int size" first and after the "=", write the size of the array you would like to test. This array will have randomly generated numbers from 0 to size-1. Now choose what value you would like x to be, which is the number that is going to be used to find a pair that adds up to that x. Now Press F5 to run and see the result. 


The result will print out a few things. The first bit is the hashtable algorithm and the second bit is the brute force algorithm. For the hashtable implementation, it prints out the pair as well as the time for insertion in ms and the time for look up in ms. The second bit which is the brute force algorithm, prints out the time in ms as well as the pair.



Functions in the code:

There are several functions in the code. 1 function is for the first algorithm while 4 functions and a struct are for the second algorithm.

First algorithm functions:
bruteForceSum


HashTable Algorithm Functions:
hashFunction
updateHash
searchHashTable
findPair
struct Entry


The function timer is to calculate the time it takes for the function to complete.
